---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/news_images/paragon.gif
navigation: True
title: Paragon changes RAG model for your customers
date: 2024-05-22
tags: [news]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: Kavour
---

<p> <i>Integrate your multi-tenant AI SaaS with 100+ 3rd party apps with 70% less engineering.</i>

<p> Today, third-party integrations are one of the most important parts of building a SaaS application. The average enterprise uses over 1,000 different cloud apps, and customers expect to buy software that integrates seamlessly with their other tools. However, achieving a robust set of high-quality product integrations typically requires anywhere from months to years of engineering work to build and maintain across multiple providers.</p>

<p> Paragon is an embedded solution for integrating your product with third-party SaaS apps, providing your customers with a seamless, unified integration experience. This allows teams to avoid the cost, time, and risk that come with building and maintaining their own integrations solution. A single installation of Paragon takes just a couple of hours and enables your application to support integrations with the most popular SaaS apps.</p>

<p> You implement Paragon by adding the Connect SDK to your application, which allows you to display the Connect Portal - a component that your users interact with in order to connect their third-party app accounts. Paragon provides fully managed authentication for each third-party app provider we support, and allows you to access your users' app accounts using Workflows or via the Paragon API.</p>

<p> If you are interested in finding more about paragon, you can click <a href="https://www.useparagon.com/paragon-for-ai?utm_source=alphasignal&utm_medium=newsletter&utm_content=ai_pitch">here</a> and explore it on you own pace! </p> 