---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/news_images/google_ai.jpg
navigation: True
title: Google releases Gemma 2
date: 2024-06-27
tags: [news]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: Kavour
---


<p>Google has introduced Gemma 2, its latest generation of open AI models, aimed at enhancing research and development in artificial intelligence. With 9B and 27B parameter versions, Gemma 2 boasts significant improvements in performance and efficiency, making it cost-effective to deploy on common hardware like NVIDIA GPUs. The model is designed for seamless integration with existing AI tools and frameworks, ensuring swift and efficient inference processes.</p>

<p>Gemma 2 stands out for its focus on responsible AI development. It incorporates advanced safety features and provides open-sourced evaluation tools to facilitate ethical AI research. This ensures that developers can work with the model while adhering to best practices in AI safety and responsibility. The availability of these tools underscores Google's commitment to fostering a trustworthy AI ecosystem.</p>

<p>Researchers and developers can access Gemma 2 through various platforms, including Google AI Studio, Kaggle, and Hugging Face. This accessibility is intended to encourage widespread experimentation and innovation within the AI community. By providing such a powerful and open resource, Google aims to accelerate advancements in AI and support the development of new, groundbreaking applications.</p>

<p>For more details, visit the official <a href="https://blog.google/technology/developers/google-gemma-2/">Google blog post</a>.
