---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/news_images/apple.png
navigation: True
title: Apple announced partnership with ChatGPT
date: 2024-06-10
tags: [news]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: Kavour
---

<p>Apple is partnering with OpenAI to put ChatGPT into Siri, the company announced at its WWDC 2024 keynote on 10th of June 2024.</p>

<iframe width="600" height="338" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/p2dhZ3AoDDs" title="Biggest AI announcements from Apple&#39;s WWDC 2024" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<p>During the keynote of its annual Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) on Monday, Apple unveiled a new generative artificial intelligence (AI) offering called Apple Intelligence. The company also announced a highly anticipated partnership with OpenAI.</p>

<p>Apple Intelligence is designed as a personal intelligence system for iPhone, iPad, and Mac, combining generative models with personal context to enhance relevance. This offering aims to simplify everyday tasks and actions across various apps. Alongside Apple Intelligence, Apple introduced a privacy-focused solution called Private Cloud Compute. As both, OpenAI and Apple, sides of this agreement stated <i>"Apple users are asked before any questions are sent to ChatGPT, along with any documents or photos, and Siri then presents the answer directly."</i></p>

<p>Additionally, Apple is integrating OpenAI’s ChatGPT into iOS 18, iPadOS 18, and macOS Sequoia. This integration, which includes features like the new Writing Tools and Siri, will be powered by OpenAI’s GPT-4o model and will be available later this year.</p>

<p>For more info on the topic:
<ul>
<li> <a href="https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2024/06/introducing-apple-intelligence-for-iphone-ipad-and-mac/">Apple</a>'s press release about latest advancements on the topic</li>
<li> <a href="https://openai.com/index/openai-and-apple-announce-partnership/">OpenAI</a>'s announcement about the partnership</li></li>
</p>