---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/news_images/chatgpt.jpeg
navigation: True
title: GPT 4o Mini - Advancing cost-efficient intelligence
date: 2024-07-18
tags: [news]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: Kavour
---

<p> In the official <a href ='https://openai.com/index/gpt-4o-mini-advancing-cost-efficient-intelligence/'>announcement</a>, OpenAI, has introduced GPT-4o Mini, a new iteration in the GPT-4 series designed to deliver high-quality AI performance while being significantly more cost-effective. This latest model aims to make advanced AI capabilities more accessible and affordable for a wider range of applications and users.</p>

<p><strong>Key Features of GPT-4o Mini:</strong></p>

<ol>
<li> <strong>Cost Efficiency</strong>: GPT-4o Mini is engineered to reduce operational costs without compromising on the quality of output. This makes it an ideal solution for businesses and developers seeking budget-friendly AI solutions.  We can see that GPT-4o mini is more than 60% cheaper than GPT-3.5 Turbo, priced at 15¢ per 1M input tokens and 60¢ per 1M output tokens (roughly the equivalent of 2500 pages in a standard book).</li>
<li> <strong>Compact Size, High Performance</strong>: Despite its smaller footprint, GPT-4o Mini maintains robust performance metrics, ensuring that users can still leverage the powerfol capabilities of the GPT-4 architecture. It is stated in the official announcement that GPT-4o mini outperforms GPT-2.5 Turbo in textual intelligence-scoring 82% on MMLU compared to 69.8% and multimodal reasoning</li>
<li> <strong>Versatility</strong>: The model is designed to cater to various applications, from customer service bots and content generation to complex data analysis, proving its adaptability across different sectors.</li>
<li> <strong>Accessibility</strong>: By lowering the cost barrier, OpenAI aims to democratize AI technology, making it more accessible to startups, small businesses, and educational institutions.</li>
<li> <strong>Environmental Impact</strong>: The efficient design of GPT-4o Mini also translates to lower energy consumption, aligning with sustainable practices and reducing the carbon footprint of AI operations.</li>
<li> <strong>Modalities</strong>: GPT-4o mini currently supports text and vision capabilities, and the team stated that it is planned to add support for audio and video inputs and outputs in the future.
<li> <strong>Language</strong>:  GPT-4o mini has improved multilingual understanding over GPT-3.5 Turbo across a wide range of non-English languages. Take a second and test your own mother tongue it may surprise you positively!
</ol>

<p> Other than that <a href='https://community.openai.com/u/jeffsharris/summary'>jeffsharris</a> (OpenAI Staff) stated that:

<em>Like GPT-4o, GPT-4o mini has a 128k context window and a knowledge cut-off date of October 2023. It also supports up to 16,384 max_tokens 82.

We plan to launch fine-tuning for GPT-4o mini in the coming days. You can learn more about GPT-4o mini in our <a href= 'https://openai.com/index/gpt-4o-mini-advancing-cost-efficient-intelligence'>announcement blog</a> 659 and <a href='http://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-4o-mini'>API documentation</a> 532, or by testing the model in <a href='https://platform.openai.com/playground/chat?models=gpt-4o-mini'>Playground</a> 90. Excited to hear what you think! </em></p>

<p>This release marks a significant step in OpenAI's mission to provide powerfol, efficient, and accessible AI tools, empowering more users to harness the potential of artificial intelligence in their respective fields.</p>

<p> For those of you using OpenAI models through Azure, worry not, in <a href='https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/openais-fastest-model-gpt-4o-mini-is-now-available-on-azure-ai/'> this announcement</a> that was published on 18th of July 2024, Microsoft has announced the availability of OpenAI's latest and fastest model, GPT-4o Mini, on Azure AI. This integration brings the advanced capabilities of GPT-4o Mini to Azure users, offering enhanced performance and cost efficiency. This collaboration between Microsoft and OpenAI underscores a commitment to making advanced AI more accessible and affordable, empowering businesses to innovate and optimize their operations with the latest AI tools.</p>
