---
layout: post
current: post
cover: assets/images/news_images/github.jpeg
navigation: True
title: GitHub Copilot - The Agent Awakens
date: 2025-02-06
tags: [news]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: Kavour
---

<p>GitHub has unveiled a groundbreaking <a href='https://github.com/features/copilot/whats-new?utm_source=agent-awakens-announcement&utm_medium=blogtop&utm_campaign=agentic-ai'>update to Copilot</a>: the new agent mode. This enhancement empowers Copilot to autonomously iterate on its code, identify errors, and rectify them, significantly boosting developer productivity.</p>

<iframe width="699" height="393" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/of--3Fq1M3w" title="Agent mode and new models in GitHub Copilot Chat: Visual Studio Code" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<p>GitHub announced the agent mode for Copilot, available in Visual Studio Code. This feature enables Copilot to suggest terminal commands and prompts developers to execute them. It also analyzes runtime errors with self-healing capabilities, allowing it to recognize and automatically fix issues in the code. This advancement transforms Copilot from a passive assistant into an active collaborator in the development process.</p>

<p>Alongside agent mode, GitHub announced the general availability of Copilot Edits. This feature allows developers to make code changes more efficiently, streamlining the development process and reducing the time spent on manual edits. Copilot Edits leverages AI to suggest contextually relevant modifications, enhancing code quality and consistency.</p>

<p>GitHub also provided a preview of their Software Engineering (SWE) agent. This agent is designed to assist developers by providing intelligent code suggestions, automating repetitive tasks, and improving overall code quality. The SWE agent represents a significant step forward in integrating AI into the software development lifecycle, offering developers a powerful tool to enhance their coding experience.</p>

<p>With the introduction of agent mode, the general availability of Copilot Edits, and the preview of the SWE agent, GitHub is redefining the role of AI in software development. These innovations aim to make coding more efficient, intuitive, and collaborative, ushering in a new era of intelligent development tools. There are many more capabilities and resources in the <a href='https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/github-copilot-the-agent-awakens/'>official announcement</a> for you to explore. So don't hacitate if you are interested and get your hands dirty!</p>